Added the documentation for multiselect widget (#5207)
magento/devdocs: guides/v2.2/javascript-dev-guide/widgets/widget-multiselect.md

---
group: javascript-developer-guide

> subgroup: 3_Widgets

Reviewer: This metadata is no longer necessary and can be removed.

title: Multiselect widget
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: This heading is unnecessary. The first paragraph of a topic is generally accepted as an overview.

> The Multiselect [widget](https://glossary.magento.com/widget/) is used to create a multiple select with the search field which helps to look for options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This [widget](https://glossary.magento.com/widget/) enables multiple select capability in the search field to help users choose different options.
```

> The Multiselect widget source is [lib/web/mage/multiselect.js][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Multiselect widget source is the [lib/web/mage/multiselect.js][] file.
```

## Initialize the Multiselect widget

For information about how to initialize a widget in a JS component or `.phtml` template, see the [Initialize JavaScript][] topic.

> Generally the Multiselect widget is instantiated like following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to instantiate the Multiselect widget:
```

```javascript
$("#multiselect").multiselect2({});
```

Where:

- `#multiselect` is the selector of the select element for which Multiselect is initialized.

Phtml template file examples using script:

```html
<script>
    require([
        'jquery',
        'mage/multiselect'
    ], function ($) {
        'use strict';
        
        $("#multiselect").multiselect2({});
    });
</script>
```

## Options

The RedirectUrl widget has the following options:

- [mselectContainer](#mselectcontainer)
- [mselectItemsWrapperClass](#mselectitemswrapperclass)
- [mselectCheckedClass](#mselectcheckedclass)
- [containerClass](#containerclass)
- [searchInputClass](#searchinputclass)
- [selectedItemsCountClass](#selecteditemscountclass)
- [currentPage](#currentpage)
- [lastAppendValue](#lastappendvalue)
- [updateDelay](#updateDelay)

### `mselectContainer`

Multiselect container selector.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'section.mselect-list'`

### `mselectItemsWrapperClass`

Multiselect items wrapper class.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'mselect-items-wrapper'`

### `mselectCheckedClass`

> Multiselect checked multiselect item class.

Reviewer: This is a little confusing because "multiselect" appears twice and is only separated by a single word. Can you try rewriting for clarity?

Author: @jeff-matthews Sorry for confusing here.
I have already adjusted the explanation of the **mselectCheckedClass** option.
Now, it looks like the following:
```suggestion
The class which is attached to a checked multi-select item.
```
Thanks.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'mselect-checked'`

### `containerClass`

> Container class.

Reviewer 2: Please, put a few words here about the purpose of containerClass. There might be a misconception in understanding `mselectContainer` and `containerClass`.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'paginated'`

### `searchInputClass`

Class of the search input.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'admin__action-multiselect-search'`

### `selectedItemsCountClass`

Class of the selected items counter.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'admin__action-multiselect-search'`

### `currentPage`

> Current page of options.

Reviewer 2: It would be great to extend this explanation as well since it's not obvious what options are we talking about. 
If we are talking about multi-select items, it's a good idea to name "options" as "multi-select items" because the term "options" in case of explaining the code implementation is ambiguous.
This suggesting is fair for the explanations below as well. 

Thank you

**Type**: Integer

**Default value**: `1`

### `lastAppendValue`

The value of the last added multi-select item.

**Type**: Integer, String

**Default value**: `0`

### `updateDelay`

The search field update delay.

**Type**: Integer, String

**Default value**: `0`

## Code sample

> The example shows the multiselect field with search bar and *Add new value* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the multiselect field with search bar and **Add new value** button.
```

```html
<div class="select-example">
    <select id="multiselect" name="multiselect-field" multiple="multiple">
            <option value="1">Option 1</option>
            <option value="2">Option 2</option>
            <option value="3">Option 3</option>
            <option value="4">Option 4</option>
            <option value="5">Option 5</option>
            <option value="6">Option 6</option>
    </select>
    <script>
        require(['jquery', 'mage/multiselect'], function ($) {
            $('#multiselect').multiselect2({selectedValues: [2, 4]});
        });
    </script>
</div>
```

## Result

> As a result, we see the multiselect field with search bar and *Add new value* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, we see the multiselect field with search bar and **Add new value** button.
```

> The search bar allows to search an option and the *Add new value* button allows to add a new option to the multiselect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now search for an option in the search bar and the **Add new value** button allows you to add a new option to the multiselect feature. 
```
